Water Quality Monitoring for Waterborne Diseases Prediction using Machine Learning 

Problem Statment
This study will focus on contaminated water through microbes. This type of contaminated water can cause many different kinds of diseases, some of which are life threatening. Some examples of waterborne diseases include cholera, Hepatitis A and E. coli (Lenntech, 2021). In most cases, unsafe water sources can be found in developing countries such as countries in Africa. According to Butler (2015), a lack of education leads to the healthcare shortage in many developing countries. In such cases, members of the community lack the education necessary to avoid preventable illnesses, and medical professionals lack the skills necessary to treat patients after they have become sick (Butler, 2018). Even when people do have the necessary skills to treat illnesses, they often travel to countries whose working conditions and salaries are better than the country they are in, and this is done in the pursuit of a better life. Due to this, vaccination for diseases is scarce. Moreover, waterborne diseases cause a weakened immune system and so patients are more prone to other diseases. In addition to this, most developing countries lack sufficient nutritional food, which causes malnutrition and a weakened immune system and body. A high occurrence of poor diet and infectious diseases creates a vicious cycle in these countries. Therefore, the issue that I am trying to solve through the conducting of this research is predicting the presence of waterborne diseases in a water source in order to decrease the chances of someone catching these diseases.
 
Rationale 
The main reasoning behind performing this project specifically is because I can also relate to the problem in question. Coming from a third-world country like Sudan, the water crisis that is in it right now has become a serious issue for many years now. The water crisis in Sudan is caused by many reasons. For starters, their main source of water is the River Nile, which it shares with 11 other countries. Most of Sudan’s other water sources are polluted with chemicals, pesticides and waste (Mark, 2019). This, combined with the government’s inability to tackle the issue, causes diseases and infections spread quicky through the water system. This also results in women and children having to travel almost everyday to collect water from another source (Barton, 2021). By understanding the problem statement stated above, through data and a functional predictive model that has a high accuracy rate, the Sudan and other countries in the world would be able to live on longer without having to worry as much about waterborne diseases. Through data that is constantly being updated, namely live data, people would be able to tell almost immediately if a water source is contaminated and contains diseases or not. This type of data is unfortunately unavailable for this project and so a dataset is going to be used. This dataset contains data relating to multiple water sources in India. The result of this project is going to be a system that will be able to predict the presence of waterborne diseases in a water source. By changing the dataset to live data, the system would be able to produce accurate results to make more informed decisions about the usage of the water source in question. 
